autoload [ {+|-}UXkmtz ] [ -w ] [ name ... ]
                                  ----
       Equivalent  to functions -u, with the exception of -X/+X and -w.

       The flag -X may be used only inside a shell  function,  and  may
       not be followed by a name.  It causes the calling function to be
                            ----
       marked for autoloading and then immediately loaded and executed,
       with  the  current  array of positional parameters as arguments.
       This replaces the previous definition of the  function.   If  no
       function  definition is found, an error is printed and the func-
       tion remains undefined and marked for autoloading.

       The flag +X attempts to load each name as  an  autoloaded  func-
                                         ----
       tion,  but  does  not execute it.  The exit status is zero (suc-
                         ---
       cess) if the function was not previously defined and  a  defini-
                                                        ---
       tion for it was found.  This does not replace any existing defi-
                                         ---
       nition of the function.  The exit status is nonzero (failure) if
       the  function  was  already  defined  or  when no definition was
       found.  In the latter case the function  remains  undefined  and
       marked  for  autoloading.   If ksh-style autoloading is enabled,
       the function created will contain the contents of the file  plus
       a call to the function itself appended to it, thus giving normal
       ksh autoloading behaviour on the first call to the function.  If
       the  -m flag is also given each name is treated as a pattern and
                                       ----
       all functions already marked for autoload that match the pattern
       are loaded.

       With the -w flag, the names are taken as names of files compiled
                             ----
       with the zcompile builtin, and all functions defined in them are
       marked for autoloading.

       The flags -z and -k mark the function to be autoloaded using the
       zsh or ksh style, as if the option KSH AUTOLOAD  were  unset  or
                                             -
       were  set,  respectively.  The flags override the setting of the
       option at the time the function is loaded.

       Note that the autoload command makes no attempt  to  ensure  the
       shell  options  set  during the loading or execution of the file
       have any particular value.  For this, the emulate command can be
       used:

              emulate zsh -c 'autoload -Uz func'
                                           ----

       arranges  that  when  func  is loaded the shell is in native zsh
                             ----
       emulation, and this emulation is also applied when func is  run.
                                                          ----
